So, we just did 300 kg deadlift. Hate to
say I told you so, but told you so.
Right. That was sick. Something else
that I kind of had in the back of my
mind was I know Kyle wanted to do his
training session as well, which he did a
whole bunch of weightlifting stuff, but
I knew that the 300 kg deadlift was
going to negatively impact the energy
levels for the rest of his session.
Well, how did you feel doing the rest of
your stuff?
>> Terrible.
>> So, it wasn't a good session. You were
right. I mean, the 300 was great, but
from a a weightlifting standpoint,
>> it wasn't a great weightlifting session
cuz you were too fatigued. Absolutely.
>> Okay, great. So, that's why I kind of
anticipated that all we'd be doing is a
deadlift and then I want to pick your
brain about how you program and how you
train. Of course, you're going to follow
different programs at various times of
the year, but typically I just want just
a general breakdown of what your
training week looks like.
>> Okay, so I would say let's start with
this. Whenever I'm writing a program, I
start with frequency.
>> So, whenever I'm speaking to someone,
it's like I can think of the best
program in the world. And then you say,
well, I want to train this amount of
sessions per week. It's like, oh, well,
that program doesn't work.
>> Absolutely.
>> So, let's start with that. So, training
frequency. How many days a week do you
train?
>> Yeah. So, this is for myself. If I'm not
Yeah. For myself, nine times per week.
So, double sessions on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday. Singles all the
way until Sunday. Sunday rest. Yep.
>> Love that. All right. So, nine sessions
per week. So, let's go day by day. So,
let's start with its obviously like A.M.
session and PM session.
>> So, Monday, so Monday.
>> Monday A.M. would be around 11:00 a.m.
Uh we will do around 70 80%. Uh we're
just going to do power movements just to
get the body moving a bit. Power snatch
would be the first movement. Uh we'll do
power cleans and we'll probably finish
off with some very very light squats.
Okay. The percentage of this session,
like I said, would be nowhere more than
70 to 80%. Thinking of it like a prime
session to get the body moving for the
evening session. Um, so yeah, power
snatch, power clean, uh, and probably
some very light back squats. Uh, all
sitting around the three rep range like
that. So 3x3 power snatch, 3x3 power
clean and back squats. Yeah. Again, 3x3
>> and
>> 3x3. Beautiful. Keep it simple.
>> Yeah. And the session would take,
excluding the warm up, this session
would take no longer than 45 minutes.
>> So I like those percentages. So, I I
always kind of recommend when it comes
to strength working 80% and above of of
your max. And I say if it's 80% and you
rep out, you probably be able to do six
reps. So, whenever I program 80%, I like
to leave reps in reserves. So, I usually
say three reps of 80%.
>> So, we're pretty aligned with that. I
reckon that's
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's right. I mean, I'm
not sure how you go about like the RP um
base. We don't really follow that in
weightlifting. It's very much more
percentage based like that. But again,
the goal of this session is to prime the
body for the evening session. On the
Monday,
>> okay, let's go to evening session. So,
>> yeah. So, on the Monday evening session,
we'll do one of the classical lifts.
We've done the power work to prime the
body. We're feeling nice and warm. We've
done the squats as well. Everything's
nice and open. We're going to do
classicals. So, we're going to do snatch
and clean and jerk.
>> Uh we'll probably
>> starting with the snatch.
>> Starting with the snatch because in
competition, we'll start with the
snatch. So, why not do the exact same
thing as what we would snatch, we'll
probably build up to 90 95% potentially.
Uh, probably doing I would say say three
doubles at 85 to 90% and probably some
singles up to 90 95% like that. Um, and
yeah, so that's probably we'll do the
first exercise. Second exercise, cleaner
jerks. Cleaner jerks percentage would be
a little bit less just because the clean
jerk is relatively a more taxing
movement. kind of you if you can compare
a deadlift to a bench press for example
like it's a much less much more tax.
>> So you can afford to take your snatch to
a higher percentage of max because it's
not as taxing.
>> Correct. Well, think about a percentage
wise, you know, even if you're going to
look at a snatch grip deadlift versus a
normal deadlift, right? You're going to
be able to deadlift more on a normal
weight. So
>> snatched you can't lift as much weight.
So we can lift at a higher percentage
more volume on the snatch.
>> So you you'll see as we go through the
program throughout the week, there's a
lot more snatch work than there is clean
and jerk work. So clean and jerks will
go 80 to 85% maybe 90%.
>> For singles still
>> doubles or singles like that. 80% with
the doubles.
>> Doubles to singles, right?
>> But no more than
>> say 80 to 85%.
>> 80 to 85% maybe 90% if the body's
feeling good. But typically we stay
around that 80 to 90% range in the clean
and jerks. Y
>> Okay. So I'm going to write here. So
that's snatch first, clean jerk second.
Anything next?
>> And finishing off like we did in the
morning. Squats.
>> Squats again.
>> So we'll squat again.
>> So it's all back squats. Um, so morning
sessions, well, it just depends. So if
we're doing a classical session like
tonight, I'll probably do front squats
after just to train that cleaner. Uh,
front squat, let's go probably 3x3 and
2x2.
>> Yep. So we'll probably do 3x3 at 80% of
of our best front squat, of course, not
cleaner jerk and 2x two. So might look
like for me 190 kg 3x3 and 2x2 at 200 kg
like that.
>> So 80% 3x3,
90% 2x2,
>> 85 to 90% 2x2. Yeah. So that that would
be a classical typical weightlifting
session. Now, as you can see, we've
split that up. We've got a morning and
we've got an evening session. You notice
in the morning we've only got three
exercises and the evening we've got
three exercises as well. Um on a single
day, which will be our next day, you'll
see there'll be more exercises at
lighter percentages, but obviously less
fatiguing. Yep.
>> Great. So that's uh Monday done. So
let's go Tuesday. So one session today.
Yep.
>> So how do you feel on Tuesday? Are you
fatigued from two?
>> Absolutely. Yeah. So obviously that's
taken into consideration, right? I'm
going to be feeling quite fatigued. It
was a double session. Uh, we went quite
heavy with the 90% in the evening like
that. So, this is going to be more of a
technique primer, more of a power based
session. So, I'm only going to stick to
the power movements this session and I'm
actually not going to squat. So, for
example, on this session, I would start
with um a probably a variation of a
snatch, a muscle snatch, for example.
Not very taxing on the body.
>> So, if I was to do a general that you
take with you to bank, would you say
snatch variation? Would you say? Yeah,
snatch variation.
>> Snatch variations. Yeah.
>> Cool. And what what reps and sets?
>> So, muscle snatch, this would be
calculated off your best muscle snatch.
We'd be doing this around 75 80%.
>> Why Why do you do a muscle snatch?
>> Muscle snatch is really good for helping
your second part. So once that bar gets
past the knee and we're working on
extension gets that nice part there.
Also builds a bit of hypertrophy in the
shoulders which is something that's
quite important for weightlifting
>> and the muscles specific to snatching.
>> Correct. Those traps. Yeah. Absolutely.
Yeah.
>> So muscle snatch reps and sets. What
would you say?
>> Uh we'd probably do four sets, three
repetitions like that around 80%. And
then after we do that primer, we'll go
into a power movement. So we'll go power
snatches. Uh we'll go 3x3 about 80% for
this. Um once we finish the power
snatches, we'll move on to a pulling
movement. Uh we won't do these too
heavy. Probably just be a snatch high
pull, which is different to a typical
snatch pulls where we're trying to pull
the bar as high as possible. Again,
really working those traps, working
those elbows coming up. We'll go higher
reps on these. Probably three sets of
five at around 80% of our best full
snatch from the floor. So quite lighter.
>> Three by five% of
>> our one snatch. Yeah. Um, and that would
probably be a Tuesday session. Yeah. I
mean, we do some accessory stuff. We can
talk about that after, but you know,
accessories I don't really do a whole
lot. It's usually a military press, a
behind the neck snatch grip press, and a
lot of posterior chain work.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Accessories. So, it's always going to
change those accessories.
>> Every day I'm doing I'm doing a press
movement, whether it's a behind the neck
snatch grip or a military press, and I'm
doing a posterior chain. It might be a
Romanian deadlift, might be a GHD back
extension, might be a Jefferson curl,
something that is going to work my
posterior chain cuz weightlifting is
such a quad dominant sport. So easy to
get some knee pain, so easy to get lower
back pain like that. We're in extension
all the time. We still got to work that
post chain. So, a bunch of posterior
chain work every day. So important. Yep.
>> Great. Okay, Tuesday done.
>> Tuesday's done.
>> I'm pretty tired already.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> Wednesday, honestly, is going to pretty
much be the same as what we did on
Monday, right?
>> Yeah, it's going to be the same type of
thing. So, we've got the AM session
where we're going to be doing the power
movements again to prime the body. Uh,
sets and reps. We'll probably keep it
the same. Okay? So, probably 3x3 for the
power snatch, 80% like that.
>> Um, we might change the variations with
the clean. So, we did powers on the
Monday. We might do maybe a muscle clean
for example. So, again, the purpose of
the morning session is to not tax ourel.
It's to get our body moving so we're
prepared and prepped for that evening
session so we can go heavier. So, um, so
it may change slightly, but very similar
to what we did on Monday. So just power
variations, nice and easy muscles
potentially and some really light
squats. You know, we'd probably do 3x3
back squat at 70% like that. Just moving
the body, getting the hips open, getting
the knees working. Everything's feeling
nice and comfortable. Yeah.
>> And then PM
>> like
>> same as day one.
>> Well, we did clean and jerks on day one,
so we'd probably skip the clean jerks on
this session because again, like I said
previously, clean and jerks quite a
taxing movement. This might be more of a
specific snatch focused session. So we
might do full snatch, snatch pull, back
squat, something like that.
>> Um, so that way we we're not doing the
clean jerks too frequently because again
the clean jerks are pretty taxing,
>> right?
>> Yeah. So it' be like like I said with
powerlifting, you wouldn't be
deadlifting four, five times a week,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So So PM all I'm going to say
here, so same as day one, but just
snatch the minus clean.
>> Yeah, pretty much. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um, same as All right. Good.
>> Yeah. And instead of clean, we might do
a pulling movement, for example. Yeah.
Day one minus cleaning jerk.
>> Yeah.
>> Due to fatigue.
>> Exactly.
>> Cool. So, let's go. Thursday.
>> Thursday session is going to be similar
to what we do on Tuesday, but a little
bit different. We'll probably do a
little bit more technique focused stuff.
So, this is where we might introduce a
couple more technical focused movements.
So, we might play around with complexes
to add a bit of variety into the
training. So, as you can see, it's
pretty basic, right? We've been doing
power snatches, power cleans, you know,
a couple muscle things. We're doing some
squats and pulls, right? Clean, jerk,
snatch. We'll probably do a bit more
variation today. So, we might do two
muscle snatches plus two snatch balances
uh as a as a prime movement. So,
>> to start the session, two muscle snatch,
>> two muscle snatches plus two snatch
balances.
>> Two sets of
>> uh Yeah, we'll probably do four sets of
that
>> all within the complex.
>> So, four movements. So,
>> so that's a complex.
>> Muscle one, muscle two onto the back.
Snatch balance one, snatch balance two.
That's one set. We'll probably do three
or four sets of that. Uh, and you know
that's quite light. 70 75%.
>> Two times muscle snatch and two times
snatch balance.
>> That's how you're going to prime this.
Prime yourself for the session.
>> Correct.
>> Cool.
>> So once we've done that, we'll move on
to our next movement. Um, so we'll
probably just go on to power snatch. But
we might do this like a variation. We
might do some hang power snatch. Want to
work that second part a little bit more.
So we'll probably go hang power snatch.
Could be above, could be below. Just
depends what I'm trying to work on at
the time. Um, and we'll do sets and reps
3x3%, you know, just keeping it like
that.
>> Um, yeah, 80% of your 1 RM snatch.
>> Uh, power snatch.
>> Ah, 80% of your one. What's stronger,
your power snatch or your full snatch?
Full snatch.
>> If you're a beginner, could probably be
your power snatch cuz you're not as
technically and positionally proficient.
If you're a high level lifter,
definitely your full snatch.
>> The full snatch is the strongest. So,
this is 80%.
>> So, every percentage that we're
calculating off each exercise is based
off of the exercise we're doing. So, if
it's a muscle snatch, we're calculating
off the muscle snatch. If it's a back
squat, it's off the back squat.
>> Except for the pulls. So, a clean pull
>> is the percentage of the clean.
>> Correct.
>> Snatch pull is a percentage of the
snatch. Absolutely.
>> Nothing to do with the percentage of a
deadlift.
>> Cuz we don't deadlift that much.
>> Or do we? Some people say that. I don't
personally. Um, so yeah, we've done the
complex, we've done the hang power
snatch. We'll probably finish off with a
light squat. Probably just do like a
front squat. More reps. Probably 4x4 at
like 70 75%. So, did you just see we
love to squat?
>> You need to squat, right? Thursday.
Done. Okay,
>> Friday, that's our next double day.
>> Friday's our next double day. So again,
going on the change of the variations.
We don't want to be doing the same thing
all the time, but keeping the principles
there, right? So morning session,
>> similar to day one,
>> pretty similar to day one, but I'd
probably do Friday for me usually is a
sort of a heavier session. So I'll
probably just do two movements usually
in the morning, the snatch and cleaning
jerk, but I'm only going to do this at
about 60% 55%.
>> Full snatch, full cleaning jerk, light.
>> Really light. like 50
>> starting with a snatch again.
>> Snatch, then cleaner jerk. That's it.
>> That's all I'll do in this morning
session. Yeah. Like like 55 to 60%.
We'll just do some doubles. Just move
the body a bit.
>> Yeah.
>> How many sets of two?
>> Uh probably like three or four sets each
thing like that. This session will take
no more than 30 minutes. You know, if
I'm snatching say 170 kg, I'm probably
going to do this at no more than 100
kilos.
>> Yeah.
>> Clean jerk and 210. I'll probably do
this no more than 120. And as we said
with clean jerks, yes, we're doing the
movement here, but as you can see, the
percentage is far less. So it's not
going to fatigue us too much going on to
the evening session this day.
>> Hang on. When we're doing these light
weights here, you need to be snappy.
Hey, correct. So it's not just light.
>> Yeah.
>> You still come in with intent.
>> Absolutely. It's the same intent, same
focus, but obviously the weights are a
lot lighter. So we can refine technique
more. We can focus on our position at
the start. We can start a bit more
statically. We can feel the legs a
little bit more in the start. We can
make those corrections in the jerk. All
those types of things. So even though
the weights are lighter, it's a great
opportunity to refine technique, which
refining everything is so important in
way.
>> And then how do you feel by the PM
session? That primes you, hey,
>> absolutely. So, I I don't feel fatigued
whatsoever cuz it's a light session,
okay? And based on how much training
we've already accumulated during the
week, I'm pretty ready to go for this
session. So, this will be my PM session.
>> Same thing, snatch and clean and jerk,
but we're going to go to pretty much
maximum to what we can to what we feel
like we can do based on the week of
training or whatever. So, I'll probably
just build up to snatch, three singles.
Um,
>> max effort.
>> Yeah, max effort. Three singles. Clean
and jerk will be the same type of thing,
but I might just do one or two singles
again because it's a more taxing
movement.
>> Yeah. Max effort again. Two singles,
right?
>> Yeah. One or two singles. Really, not
much like that. Now, once I've done
these movements, I'm actually going to
do some drop sets, too, because I
haven't really done much training.
>> Back down sets after the snatch. Back
down sets.
>> And And that's going to be at like 70%
and it's just going to be triples for
each thing. So, probably just triples,
snatches, clearing jerk triples like
that.
>> Three by three.
>> Yeah. Yeah, like that. And that'll be
some back downstairs. So, I'm still
getting some training in cuz I want to
still be doing the movement like that.
>> The technique work.
>> Yeah. But I'm not I'm not fatiguing
myself before I build up to those max.
It's like we're doing the deadlifts. Why
would we do multiple reps and sets then
go up, you know? So, we want to make
sure we're fresh for that. So, the same
thing with the clan jerks. We'll do
triples for back off sets around 70%
like that. Um,
>> and to finish off this session, you can
already guess it.
>> We got squats.
>> We're squatting. We're squatting for
something different, right?
>> Yes. We're going to do back squats. Uh,
but we're going to actually build up to
quite heavy, probably 90% back squat.
>> Wow. More reps. So, probably 90% back
squat. We'll warm up with doubles. Um,
and we'll probably build up to, yeah,
singles up to 90% like that. Uh, same
principles. We'll do our back offsets as
well at probably 60 70% for five reps.
Like five%
>> 90%
times one.
>> Uh, yeah.
>> And then back down.
>> Yeah. Back downs. We'll do back down
sets. Probably two sets of five. Back
squat, 70% like that. Still get the legs
ticking over. helps with the recovery as
well, I find. So, that's a PM session.
>> These sessions look fun, man.
>> They look fun, but they're pretty
taxing.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Yeah, they're pretty taxing. Yeah.
>> So, this session for me, it's like I
look at that as like I do a lot of
powerlifting like this, but obviously
not as many days. So, so the top set
back down set method
>> to be honest with you, I used to train
that way and I first learned that from a
weightlifting coach called John Bros. So
John populariz invent
the Bulgarian method over to squats. So
squat everyday programs and it was all
day one high bar squat max with back
down work. Day two
>> front squat max with back down work. So
I kind of just always use that on my
heavy days. Top set back down set. And
you know a lot of people do it as well
but that's where I learned about it
first.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So and that's pretty much what I
do. Top singles and then triples after.
>> Well the reason why I'm doing the back
down sets is mainly two things. It's not
really to get stronger. It's just a bit
more technical refinement. And it's also
just to keep my body ticking over cuz
again, I want to be doing the movements
as frequently as possible. You know, I
want to be feeling the movements like
that.
>> So, it's not enough volume if you just
do the top single.
>> If if I wanted to accumulate volume, I
would be doing it I would be doing it
before the singles. I'd be doing like
triple snatch at 80%. Then I'd be going
doubles at 85. Then I'd be going
singles. But
>> as the warm up.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> Lots of reps.
>> Actually, I remember you doing that when
you squatted here.
>> Correct. You did you like doing reps on
>> we did 3x3 220 then we jumped to 240 for
two singles like that and then we then
we went down to 180 and did some drops.
>> I remember saying that you you said I'm
going to come for a 240 single and then
you're doing Yeah, that's it. Triples on
220. I'm like
>> yeah you're like how
>> Yeah, I remember you saying to me like
you going to do it? I'm like oh no I got
to I got to train first. Like I got to
got to do my sets and reps and then I'll
do it. Yeah, that's but that's what we
do in weightlifting. We're used to
fatiguing the body before going up.
Yeah.
>> Last session. We're on the last session.
This is the last session of the week.
We've just done a pretty heavy one. This
will probably just be a little bit of
movement. Okay. So, I'll probably go
into the gym and I'll just do some
muscle snatches, some muscle cleans. So,
two movements. These are very um
non-fatiguing exercises. Okay. Muscles
are
>> I would have thought that it's more
fatiguing.
>> Not no because the percentage of
>> Yeah. Like, for example, my best muscle
snatch is 110 kg. My best full snatch is
165. So, if I'm doing 80% muscle snatch
versus 80% snatch, what it's going to be
instead of 110, it's not very
>> it's only going to be like 85 90 kg.
>> So, what are we doing here? So, muscle
snatch on Saturday.
>> We're going to do 3x3.
>> 3x3%.
>> Yeah. And we're going to do the exact
same thing for the next movement, which
is going to be muscle clean. 3x3 80%
like that.
>> Muscle clean. Does that mean it's a
strict press up? Oh, so it's just a
clean. So, coming around like that,
right? Yeah. But we're not we're not
dipping under the bar. We're just
musling it up. Elbows coming around.
Quads are staying extended and tense the
whole time. So, it's it's an upper body
movement like we're saying. So, people
on hypertrophy in the traps and the
shoulders doing that movement. Yeah. So,
>> by 38%
>> 80%. Yeah. And then to finish off, um,
we'll probably do
>> Hang on. What's your best muscle clean
versus what's your best snatch? Just so
I got context with the percentages of
these.
>> Best muscle clean 140 kg.
>> Best full clean, I should say.
>> A best full clean 210. So percentage
wise, we're looking at about
>> less than 70%. Just less than
>> 65 70 like that. Yeah. Yeah, roughly.
Yeah.
>> Okay. So, a muscle snatch 3x3. B muscle
clean 3x3.
>> Yep. Finish off, we'll probably just do
a pulling movement. We have squatted
enough this week. So, we'll probably
just do a clean pull probably. This is
again off our 1RM clean and jerk. Um, I
would do this probably at 80 85%. Just
do 3x3. Keep the body moving
>> and that'll do me for the week. That's a
that's a normal normal week in the life
for a uh weightlifter.
>> I think that's a pretty cool program.
>> Would most weightlifterss train like
this? Depends on your goals, right? For
me, at an Olympic level, I'm trying to
train to be as strong as possible. This
is what I believe I need to do to get as
strong as possible.
>> But if your goals aren't at an Olympic
level or to be training at that elite
world type level, I don't think you need
to train this much. You really
>> I think that's always like something I
always say like people like to emulate
their favorite lifters and they look up
to I'm sure people look up to you and
they're like, "Okay, I'm going to do
what Kyle does."
>> Now, something I always say is don't
look at what these lifters are doing
now. Look at what they did to get to
where they are now. Right. So now this
is you how many years into your journey?
>> 12 years.
>> 12 years into your journey.
>> Would you say, you know, starting out in
the first like few years,
>> would you suggest that nine sessions a
week is what you'd do.
>> If you were you wanted to be the best.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I actually would.
Yeah. I mean, when I started
weightlifting when I was about 15, 16, I
didn't start taking it seriously till I
was probably 17. When I met my coach,
>> I said to him, I want to take it far. I
want to go to the elite level. So, he
said, well, we got a lot of ground to
make up. I'm from Iran. That's where my
coach is from.
>> I started weightlifting at 12. Most of
us started even before we're teens,
okay? We start pro training like that.
You've got a lot of ground to make up.
I've already got 5 years on you. So, for
me, because I wanted to go to that
Olympic elite level, I actually did
double sessions very early on into my
training. Not the first period, probably
the first three three to six months I
had to develop the technique and learn
how to do the lifts properly. Once I was
able to lift proficiently at least 80%
to what he wanted, we then incorporated
double sessions. So I did nine sessions
a week probably 6 months into training
>> as beginner to intermediate. But the
movements were far different to what
I've just given you guys, right? It
would be a lot more squatting.
>> I am going to because I need this
>> because I hear a lot of people say a lot
of the best weightlifters didn't do all
of these things when they started. Well,
what did they do when they started? And
I I kind of think,
>> you know, your specificity when you
start will help with specificity later
on. But anyway, what did you do when you
first started?
>> I just did more of them the Olympic
lifts. A lot more snatchy.
>> Did you start with a broomstick?
>> No.
>> No, I didn't do that. No, I never did. I
started on the 20 kilo bar. I just
started playing with the Olympic lifts.
I come from a rugby background, so I
would always We'd always do Olympic
lifting variations, power cleans, power
snatches, pulls. Do you teach people on
a on a broomstick?
>> Uh, no.
>> Straight to a barbell. 20 kilo barbell.
>> Technique barbell. There's different we
have a 10 kg barbell, 15 kg for female,
20 for male, like that. If I have
someone, it depends their age, like
training experience like that. But
generally speaking, if I have a complete
beginner coming into me, if they're
strong enough, they'll go on the 20 kilo
bar straight away. If they're not,
they'll start on the technique bar like
that. I am a big believer in movement,
and we'll talking about this before. I
cannot emulate the positions on a
broomstick to what I can when I have
weight loaded. Same principle with those
those front rack. If I'm going to try
and hold a front rack, you give me a
broomstick right now, it's going to be
like I can't do it. You give me 20 kg, I
still can't still can't do it, but it's
better, right? You give me 70, 100 kg,
now we're talking, right? And the same
applies when you're a beginner, you need
to feel the position. So, I'm not
actually not a big fan of the broomstick
to be honest. Yeah.
>> So, when it comes to specificity or
variation as a beginner, um how
different would your exercise selection
be from this to if you were coaching
yourself when you first started? Would
you use different exercises back?
>> Yeah. What I would change, and I know
this sounds crazy probably telling you
this, I would actually probably do more
squats and I would do more pools. I
would prioritize the strength movements
when I'm starting because I'm new to the
sport. What do I need to get better? I
need to get stronger. I need to get
better at my pools. I need to get better
at my squats. Okay. Yes, I need
technical refinement for my Olympic
lifts, right? But I don't have that
strength base. So, when I was younger, I
really hammed in the squats and the
pools. Got my squats and pulls up very
strong. Once they were where I wanted
them to be, then I started putting a bit
more emphasis on the Olympic lifts and
pulled back the squats. Now in my
career, I yes, I still squat a lot, but
you'll notice I don't squat as heavy as
what I used to. You know, you won't see
me back squatting more than 210 kg a
week. I can clean and jerk that.
>> That's wild, right? Versus when I was
18, I'd be back squatting say 240 kg,
but I could only clean and jerk 170,
right? So that's sort of the biggest
difference from being a beginner to now
is the squat and pulling frequency. I
did way more when I was young cuz I
didn't have the strength. I the age, the
maturity, the lower back development,
you know, all that type of stuff. Yeah.
So more squat and pulling when I was
younger, still emphasizing the Olympic
lifts, but now it's more Olympic lifting
focus. On top of that, the Olympic lifts
are a lot less fatiguing on the body. If
I go heavy squats and freaking 300 kilo
deadlifts now, that I'm still 26 years
old, which is quite young, but in
weightlifting terms, I am getting a
little bit older. I'm not a teenager,
right?
>> You're approaching your your peak years.
Yeah,
>> correct. I would say I'm probably in my
peak years now to about 30 31 like that.
That's going to fatigue me a lot. So,
but when I'm younger, I can afford to do
more squats and pulls cuz I can recover
better. I'm younger and the load is a
lot less. I wasn't sense.
>> Wasn't clean jerking 210 when I was 18.
>> Makes so much sense. Now, now, last
thing.
>> Sure.
>> What not to do?
>> What not to do? Okay. So, there's a few
exercises that I haven't heard you talk
about, and I don't want to say don't do
it like it's a bad thing, but just based
on what you do and don't do, like
there's a few exercises that I haven't
heard you say you do. One is a bench
press.
>> Do you ever bench?
>> Never.
>> Have you ever?
>> Uh, for fun, like twice in my life.
>> And what did you get?
>> 140.
>> Okay. So, that's like
>> I did a super total comp for fun once
and I deadlifted 250. It was terrible
shrug like that. And I benched 140.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Um, and then what about unilateral work?
Do you do any lunging?
>> No.
>> Neither do I.
>> Let me explain all the accessories I do.
It's pretty simple. And I've done this
since I started weightlifting.
>> Let's take all the physio stuff like for
injuries and stuff. Let's just say
everything's good. I'm doing probably
maximum six accessories a week. I'm
doing military press. I'm doing behind
the neck snatch grip press. I'm doing
GHD back extensions. Romanian deadlifts.
That's pretty much it. I'm doing
posterior chain and shoulder developing
movements cuz they're the movements that
I need to get strong. I don't need to do
lower back accessories. I'm squatting
and pulling all the time. I don't need
to do quadricep accessories. I'm
squatting all the time. I don't need a
snatch and clean joke. I'm doing it all
the time. What I need to get stronger as
my shoulders cuz I'm doing so much
weightlifting and I need to get my
posterior chain strong because we use
our quads so much, right? So, we don't
want to neglect the post chain. That's
all I do. And I've done that since I was
16. So, for 10 years now, four or five
accessories. None of this
>> I resonate with that a lot. In fact, you
know, strength and conditioning
community,
yeah, but it should be a lot of times
we're taught by academics that say
things like, you know, the importance of
building, you know, unilateral strength
and building a balanced base before we
then go into, you know, specificity is
hugely important. And I think,
>> you know, a lot of people preaching
this, I bet you if I went to the best in
the world and ask them, did you start
with lunges? Did you start with these
these funny accessory exercises to build
a base? I reckon none of them would do
it. And now that I'm asking you, it's
like no. So, even coming from an Iranian
coach. Yes.
>> So, you know, the Iranians are known for
being pretty damn good at weightlifting,
right?
>> They're the best in the world. They got
world record holders in in multiple
weight classes, don't they?
>> And would you say that it's a typical
Iranian style? The way I train and the
way I coach my athletes, although I
coach them a bit differently to how I
would for myself, it's very similar to
the methods my coach instilled. That's
all I know. That's what I learned from
my coach.
>> That's based on the way that a lot of
the Iranians train as well.
>> That's the Iranian system. So, it's it's
a lot. It's squatting frequently. It's
doing your pulls as your accessories.
It's snatching clean, jerking
frequently. But it's not just the
Iranian system. The Russians do this.
You know, the Koreans do this. You know,
Eastern Europeans are block like that.
Romanians like that. It's it's all the
same principles. Do your squats, do your
pool, snatch, and clean a jerk. And do
it frequently for long enough and you'll
get good at it.
>> That's sick. Now, what I'm going to do,
>> yeah,
>> for you guys, I'm going to write this
out.
>> Okay.
>> And where can we find you for my
audience?
>> So, you can find me on all social media
platforms, Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube,
Facebook.
>> I'm going to write it down in the
comments so that you guys know exactly
where to find this guy. If you want
anything to do with weightlifting, he's
the best in Australia and he's coached
by the best in the world. So, this guy
knows his stuff. I'm going to give them
>> this is not a complete program. It
doesn't factor in like peing for
competition. I'm sure there'd be
changes. If you had a competition later
on, we'd modify this. But just as a
baseline, like if people at home say,
you know what, I want to be a badass
weightlifter.
>> I'll give them this structure.
>> This is everything you need. If you were
starting out, obviously maybe minus the
morning sessions, I think this is great.
And you could even do five sessions.
>> If you're a fanatic,
>> Yep.
>> you can do the morning sessions as well.
If you want to go for it, have
>> it's not going to make you worse, is it?
>> It's I mean, the more the better. Just
don't get
>> injured. Okay. So, let's just say that
um if I was to modify this for someone
that didn't have time to do the double
days, should we eliminate the morning
sessions and just keep the PM?
>> I would eliminate the morning sessions
on the Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
And I'd probably even eliminate the
Saturday session. Just do it five times
a week like that. That would honestly be
sufficient enough. This is a sufficient
enough program. You've got your snatch,
you've got your clean jerk, you've got
your squats, you got your pulls, some of
the pressing stuff. This is all you need
to be better at weightlifting. So, I'm
going to write this out for you guys,
and you're going to have two variations
of it. One for the hardcore fanatics
that want nine sessions a week, and then
ones that I don't want to say that
aren't hardcore. Uh, you could be
hardcore, but you maybe don't have the
time.
>> Priorities are different.
>> Priorities are different. That's the
nice words, right? We'll make it nine.
All right. So, you got two programs,
brother. Thank you for your generosity,
my man. I appreciate. And thank you for
the lifting 300 and making me look like
a good coach. How good was that? Anyway,
I hope you guys enjoyed and I'll see you
guys next time.
>> You guys, cheers.
>> What do you say you want more content
like this?
>> We'll do it again.
>> If you want next more content, you know,
put in the comments what you want to see
Kyle Bru do. I'll tell you some of the
things I want to see him do.
>> All right.
>> Low bar squat,
>> bench press,
and a 180 kg snatch.
>> Ooh.
>> Now, that's a while away. I'm not sure.
What's your best snatch?
>> Currently 165. I've attempted a 170.
Yep. Okay. Well, you know, okay. And
then what's your best clean joke?
>> Uh 205 and 2 Tang like clean like that.
>> Yeah. Well, there's his numbers. You're
going to see him come back here so you
know the backstory. This is We've had
you on here before just for a bit of a
squat session, but now we've got a
little bit more of a history of Kyle
Bruce.
>> We're going to come in more.
>> Yeah. And uh and yeah, put in the
comments section what you want to see me
get this guy do, and we're going to
bring it.
>> Let's do it.
>> All right, legends. Chew.